Landing on a spacecraft is always dodgey.

After a year as a community 300 strong, we were finally landing on our
new home: Istara, the latest of the human colony worlds. Looking at
the screen in front of us, the bluish-brown mottling of color was
overwhelming beneath a mix of dingy grey clouds. Every pair of eyes,
young and old, were looking with joyous apprehension at what would
soon be standing ever presently beneath us.

Most of us were from Earth: That beautiful, overcrowded mess of a
planet we left behind through a lottery over one year ago. It was a
bit of a relief at first, to leave that world behind. Aside from the
radiation from multiple centuries of warfare none of us were alive to
have a say in, and the constantly shifting weather supplied by our
functional-but-synthetic solution for the global temperature problem,
there were just too many people living there. 

Having Your family's number called by the space lottery was
exhilarating, but also terrifying: It meant You had 6 months to
prepare to leave everything- friends, extended family, property,
wealth, jobs... everything- behind for a new existence so far away
that You knew You would never be returning, no matter what. The
science-fiction dreams of space-wide taxis were still a long way off-
So far off, Earth would likely not see them. And we realized this a
half-century ago, when we all voluntarily registered for the selective
relocation mandatory under global law.

The Earth, at long last, was about used up. Get out while You can.

The few colonists picked up en route were so different from us
already: Dressing in strange clothes, with heavily distinct accents
developed from speaking with the same people for many years, on other
worlds. They were human, there was no doubt... But they were as
different as humans could be.

Is that what awaits us on Istara? Will we... Will I change that much
before I pass? Or do You have to be born into it? I look around, at
the faces I've lived amongst for the last fifty-four weeks, and I see
good people. Once we've founded Istara's colony, how many will stay
the same? How many will change to the point of non-recognition,
without a single memorable feature about them, aside from that face?

Will I be the same? Should I have accepted my family's calling to the
stars?

Hope springs eternal below us,

A new world, a new place 

seperated by space and stars,

without a way to return home,

forever to set our own pace,

Alone.

- Cpt. Casey Jewel, 01-01-0001 IY

---

> 14-25-0052 IY 0821

Petya Jewel slid a heavy yellow vest over her shoulders with a
sigh. She buried her brown hands in thick, bright yellow gloves to
match the new vest she was wearing. A helmet followed, completely
covering her short-cut hair.

"All ready here." She said in an automatic tone of voice.

Her mother, the Captain, stepped forward to inspect her. She fussed a
bit with certain parts of her armor, but in the end, nodded. "You
*are* all set. Today's the day, like it or not, anyway." A sad smile
was crawling its way across her face as she spoke. "I am proud of You,
Pet, for taking this mantle from me. Never forget the service You do
for all of us, no matter how hard things get out there. You are the
reason we, Istara, can continue living as we do."

Petya smiled at her mother as she continued on her speech, but her
mind was elsewhere: Out in the vast and uncharted fields beyond their
domed settlement, in the areas hidden from their people's experience
on this planet. Discovering and documenting new things for the future,
allowing us to understand the world around us ever-so-slightly more
than they already did.

And then, she saw the diploma her mother had in her left hand.

"Here it is. Happy Birthday, Pet. Here's to many more." She handed
over the metal diploma, already framed and ready to be left behind. It
read:

> This diploma recognizes Petya C. Jewel's accomplishments in the
> fields of Xenobiology and Xenopology, as noted by the First
> University of Istara on this, her 25th birthday, 14/25/0052.

She smiled, and set the plaque-like diploma down.

